But we're really happy
to have you all here,
except for those of you
standing in the back.
But those of you sitting down here
and those of you in the overhaul,
we thank you very much for being
willing to stand out there.
You know who you are.
We're having some
sessions right now about,
now that you've built these really cool
apps in five minutes or five man months,
depending on how you're
scheduling things,
it's time to get them
out to your customers,
which is now easier than
ever before in Apple history.
And we're very excited to have Dirk
Johnson to tell you all about it.
So please give a warm welcome to Dirk.
Thanks, Eddie.
Appreciate it.
So how are you doing?
It's the last session of the day.
I hope you're all ready for it,
ready to stretch.
You know,
I remember the moment I realized
how awesome WebObjects was.
It was about three or so years ago.
I was working at Apple in
the information department,
information systems and technology.
I was actually on the
internet services team.
and we were at that time putting together
what is now called the Apple store,
Apple online store,
and we were investigating different
technologies that we could use to
sort of get this store together.
We'd visited places like
Oracle and Netscape,
and there were some good sides to
the technologies they presented,
some bad sides, costs.
We were tied into their engineers
for a long period of time.
And then this, from out of the blue,
this, from the side, we merged with Next.
And I went up to my manager and I said,
"You know, I think at Next,
they have this technology called
WebObjects," something like that.
And I think it might be what we
need to put this store together.
So my manager,
being the wise person he was, said,
"Well, hop in a car,
drive up to Redwood City,
introduce yourselves,
and learn WebObjects." So I said,
"Okay." So Glenn Eppes and myself,
Glenn being the technical...
The technical lead of our team and I,
being a programmer,
went up to Redwood City.
We literally just drove up with
our Apple badges and walked into
the reception area and said,
"Well, we're with Apple.
Here's our badge.
Now that we're the same company,
do you mind if we come in?"
and the receptionist, bless her heart,
said, "Sure,
come on in." So she opened the
door for us and we walked in and we
walked around and said hi to people,
very friendly,
and we found a couple of cubes
where there weren't people,
and we sat down and we
started learning WebObjects.
It was awesome,
coming from a Mac development side and
coming to the object-oriented side and
just learning about the sophisticated
and elegant technology was great.
So Glenn and I decided rather than
biting off the Apple store at once,
well, we'd start with a small project.
So we decided to implement an e-commerce
site within Apple for Apple employees
to purchase their system discounts,
their yearly system discounts.
We called that the quarterly
promo or the Q promo.
For those of you that have been
part of the development cycle,
you know what that's like.
Late nights, stale pizza, bad jokes,
and we eventually got done.
So we're sitting there,
and I remember this moment.
Those of you that are
developers know this moment.
You look at yourself,
you've checked off the last feature,
squashed the last bug,
and you look at each other and you go,
"Yes!"
Done.
We're ready.
Now what?
What do we do?
Can we use an AIX web server to
serve a WebObjects application?
How many instances do we need to run?
How much RAM do we need?
Are you sure we can connect
to that Oracle database?
Will it handle the load?
Thus was born the idea for actually
coming up with a way of learning how
to deploy a WebObjects application.
And so we're here tonight.
I hope to share some of the
things that I've learned in
deploying WebObjects applications.
And I hope that's somewhat
familiar to you as well.
So again, my name is Dirk Johnson.
I'm now a trainer at Apple.
What I'd like to do is, first of all,
go over sort of an overview of
the deployment architecture.
Then we'll go into detail about
some things like configuring
and monitoring your website,
obviously an important
part of deployment.
will mention some troubleshooting
skills and techniques because there's no
website without its share of problems.
And then in the end,
to sort of bring the ideas together,
I'd like to go over an
example of deployment.
The nature of deployment is such that
some of the subject matter that I'll be
going with are a little bit disparate,
so hopefully I won't lose you,
hopefully I'll have
some good transitions,
and there's a lot of detail
and information in this,
so I think it will be useful.
So a very basic deployment architecture
would be something like this.
Hopefully it's somewhat familiar.
When we talk about a WebObjects
deployment architecture,
sometimes we refer to it as
being a three-tier architecture.
The first tier being
the presentation layer,
made up of the browser
and the HTTP server,
something that's going to be
serving your content to your users.
The second tier is our application layer.
Of course, this is where the developers
spend most of their time.
This is your custom logic.
The third tier is the database layer,
providing the dynamic
content to your site.
Some issues to consider when
you're coming up with your
deployment architecture.
First, what operating system
are you going to use?
With WebObjects, we support, of course,
Mac OS X Server and T4, Windows 2000,
Solaris and HPUX, and of course,
with our new announcement,
Mac OS X and Linux with
WebObjects 5 for Java.
So lots of choices.
As far as hardware,
I'll let you know what operating
system you're going to use.
How are you going to
set up your hardware?
Processor speed is important,
especially if you're going to have
a lot of traffic on your site.
Processor count for
multiprocessor systems.
The amount of RAM, your disk subsystem,
and redundancy,
redundant power supplies for example.
Important things to check off your
list to make sure you've considered.
Your environment, your network speed,
your network security.
Network security is pretty obvious.
Making sure that people can't
get in through the network,
but sometimes we forget
physical security.
I recall hearing within
the last year or so,
a company was really good at making
sure people couldn't hack in to their
database and get their credit cards.
So someone decided to go around,
walk in the door,
and pick up the physical
box and walk out with it.
So it's important to not let that happen.
And we learned that as well at Apple,
though that didn't happen to us.
Temperature control and even
moisture control is important.
And of course UPS for
when the power goes out.
And make sure and test the
batteries under that condition
so they last long enough for you.
That, we didn't do that.
Deployment licenses.
So there's three deployment licenses,
all the way from work group
to desktop to high end,
and they each have various capabilities.
Is this right?
No.
You're right!
It's not, it's different.
How is it different?
$699.
$699, you get the whole ball of wax,
the whole IAN deployment.
Pennies on the dollar!
Multi-processor, multiple instance,
no volume limit, and if you order within
the next 30 minutes,
we'll throw in a pair of Ginsu knives!
Alright, we've got that driven home.
$6.99.
Have you seen our website this morning?
It's got $6.99 right on there.
Alright,
so review of the deployment architecture.
Let's talk about the communication that
takes place between the application
layer and the database layer.
We do this through something
called a database adapter.
So depending on what
platform you've chosen,
there is a limitation on
what databases we connect to.
So again, for example, OS X has Oracle,
Solaris has, well, all the way down the
column you can see Oracle,
Sybase, Informix, ODBC.
But the high point is again
WebObjects 5 for Java.
So you can see across all
platforms where we're supported.
So that's again an awesome thing.
So you want to consider
your database adapter.
So now, let's talk about the interaction
between your presentation layer
and your application layer.
We use something called
the WebObjects adapter.
The WebObjects adapter
works with the HTTP server.
With WebObjects,
we supply three specific API adapters,
or HTTP adapters: Apache, NSAPI or WAI,
which is Netscape, ISAPI,
which is Microsoft,
and then of course we support the
CGI interface with web servers.
Let's talk about that a little bit more.
First of all,
the advantage of the CGI adapter
is that it works everywhere.
There's absolutely no place you
really can't use it with a web server.
As a matter of fact, we did,
with the quarterly promo,
deploy with an AIX web server.
We recompiled the
CGI adapter and it worked.
The disadvantage with it is that it is
slower than what we call the API adapter.
It is slower than the API adapters
because every request forces
it to spawn a new process.
So that's going to be slow.
It has overhead.
Additionally,
it's not allowed to use the load
balancing algorithms that we
have built into the API adapters.
So, contrarily, the API adapters then
do have load balancing,
which is great for performance.
The API adapters also operate within
the same process as the HTTP server,
so you've got less overhead there.
And again, we have Netscape, Microsoft,
and Apache support.
And of course, the C source code is
supplied for all adapters,
so you're able to modify their
behavior or recompile them for
different platforms for the aggressive.
So let's talk a little bit
more about this interaction,
the adapter with our
WebObjects applications.
The browser represents, of course,
a user and a request coming in.
I didn't put the HTTP server there.
Please just assume the request
goes to the HTTP server and then
gets handed off to the adapter.
So our user submits a request.
The adapter looks at the URL that's
submitted with the request.
As it looks at the URL,
it looks at what the application name
is and what instance of that application
that needs to receive that request.
The adapter holds
configuration information,
including what instances are running
and what hosts they're running on.
The adapter will then
cross-reference that URL with
its configuration information,
and then it will identify
the instance and forward the
request onto that instance.
That's a summary of the way that
request works with the adapter.
Now what I'd like to focus on
with this slide is really that
configuration information because
that's really the entryway into
your application architecture.
So this configuration
information-- first of all,
the information that the adapter holds is
for three separate sets of information.
First, its own configuration
information-- for example,
what load balancing mechanism
that you want it to use.
Second, it has a list of all available
applications and the configuration
at the application level.
And then thirdly,
you have the application instances
and what hosts they're running on,
and for example,
their configuration information,
like port number and instance number.
The format of all this
information is XML,
but it does still support the old
format for those that are used
to the pre-WebObjects 4.5 format,
the PList.
This configuration information
that the WebObjects adapter has
is obtained usually via a URL,
and you configure that information
in the web server configuration file.
It's in the web server's
configuration file that you
configure your WebObjects adapter.
So let's talk a little bit more
about this URL that I referred to
that the adapter uses to gather
its configuration information.
First of all,
there are three ways or mechanisms
that your adapter can actually
get at configuration information.
First of all, the first mechanism is
the typical flat file.
The first URL that you see there is an
example of referencing a local flat file,
and the second is having a web server,
Deon,
serving up the configuration information.
So that's a remote flat file.
That's pretty straightforward.
The second way is you can provide
an actual host list for the adapter,
and it will actually contact these
hosts for configuration information.
There's something I need
to introduce here,
and that's a process
that we call WOTASC-D.
This is new with WebObjects 4.5.
It is a process that runs on every
one of your application hosts.
And one of its roles is to supply
configuration information for the
adapter that is relevant for that
particular host that it resides on.
So in this case, we have a host list
referencing two hosts,
Helen and Telesto.
And the WOTASC-D process
is listening on port 1085.
So what this means is that the
WebObjects adapter is going to go
and connect to Helen on port 1085,
which will be the WOTASC-D process.
And that WOTASC-D process will
return its XML information,
its configuration
information for that box.
In this case,
the adapter will combine the
configuration information
from two WOTASC-D processes.
The third mechanism is multicast,
and we'll get into that in a minute.
I want to deal with that in more detail.
Now this configuration information that
the adapter caches can become stale.
So by default,
the adapter refreshes that configuration
information every 10 seconds.
So let's talk a little bit more
about this Woe-tasty process.
It probably spurred your curiosity.
Again, as I mentioned,
it runs on every WebObjects
application server.
It's very important.
It started and restarted for robustness
by a daemon called Woe-Service.
That's on every platform.
and his team have been working
together to develop a new
application for the WebObjects.
The WebObjects is a
software-based application,
and it supplies the adapter.
One of its roles is to supply the adapter
again with this configuration data.
Again, on port 1085 is where it
by default listens and
communicates that information.
Now, its real primary role not only
is to help the adapter and get
its configuration information,
but it's also,
its primary role is to monitor, cycle,
and restart your configured instances.
For those that are familiar
with WebObjects previous to 4.5,
this was really the role of
monitor in the monitor proxy.
Monitor was responsible for actually
configuring the instances and making sure
that they stayed up if they went down.
This role has now been moved
over to the WoTAScD process.
And again, the WoTAScD process is local
to that particular host.
Monitor still exists,
but it's merely just an
interface to WoTAScD.
An interesting note about the
WoTestD process is even though,
let's say that you have
your WoTestD process,
you've gone in and configured various
apps to run and communicate with WoTestD,
WoTestD can still serve instances
of your application that you
have not configured with Monitor.
When your applications start up,
they send what's called a LifeBeat
to Monitor to register with WoTestD.
I'm sorry,
it sends a LifeBeat to WoTestD to
register with it so that WoTestD can
also service those instances that say
you start manually from the command line.
So it's not necessary to configure
it with Monitor in order for
WoTestD to service your instances.
Let's make that a little clearer here.
Here we have two hosts,
Europa and Callisto.
Pay attention to those names.
Those hosts, application hosts,
are running WOTASC-D, again on port 1085.
You have your WebObjects
adapter sitting there.
You start up, let's say, four instances,
two on each.
They send their life beat to Wotesti,
letting Wotesti know, "Hey,
I'm ready to go."
In your web server configuration file,
you've configured a WebObjects adapter
with a host list where it will look
for its configuration information.
In this case, you're open Callisto again.
and it will then communicate every 10
seconds with WoTAS-D on port 1085 and
build this configuration information.
So now let's talk about
this multicasting.
It's similar to the host list
but a little more flexible.
As a matter of fact,
let's talk about the flexibility
first of this host list.
What's the advantage of the host list,
let's say, over the flat file?
Well, the flat file doesn't
incur the traffic on the,
on the network.
The traffic's light really anyway.
The advantage to the host list is
let's say that you want to increase
the performance of your website.
Let's say it's getting bogged
down a bit and you want to,
you want to add another instance,
let's say, to Europa and Callisto,
another instance of your application.
But when those instances start up,
they'll register with
WOTAS-D via the Lifebeat.
And guess what?
WebObjects adapter will refresh
its information every ten seconds.
On the next refresh,
the WOTAS-D process will
alert the adapter to the other
processes that you've started.
So without you having to do anything
with the WebObjects adapter,
you've actually scaled
your site seamlessly.
So that's one of the
advantages of the host list.
Now let's talk about multicasting.
Multicasting is actually
a network protocol.
It uses an IP address from the
administratively scoped domain.
WebObjects has used this particular
IP address that you see up here,
239.128.14.2.
No need to memorize it,
it's written down.
I can't memorize those.
Administratively scoped domain,
what does that mean?
It's an IP in the range of IPs that are
for internal use to a private network.
And again, it broadcasts on port 1085.
When the WOTAS-D processes start up,
they register to receive a
multicast on that particular
port at that particular IP.
By default, a multicast is limited to the
particular subnet on which it resides,
on which it is broadcast.
But if you configure your router
to pass on multicast packets,
you can actually use this
multicast to reach other subnets.
That's an important point.
So WoTaskD, I'm sorry,
so the adapter then,
if it's set up to use the multicast,
will then broadcast this
multicast out on the network,
and all WoTaskDs,
because they register to
listen for this multicast,
will then register themselves
with your WebObjects adapter.
What this allows the adapter to
do is build a dynamic host list.
Now this broadcast, this multicast,
is sent out by the WebObjects
adapter every 100 seconds.
So it rebuilds that dynamic
host list every 100 seconds.
So the advantage of that is,
is in the previous example,
our host list,
if we added a new instance,
it was automatically
detected by the adapter.
However, what if we add a new host?
The adapter is not going to know
about the new host because we
already have a static host list.
So the advantage of the multicast
then allows us to add an entirely
new box to our application layer
and the adapter will automatically
see that within 100 seconds or less.
Alright, so we'll get a little graphical
representation of this.
Again, we use Europa and Callisto,
our WOTASd processes,
and in the WebServer configuration file,
we've configured a WebObjects adapter to
use the multicast way of configuring it,
of getting its configuration information.
Start our instances.
They register with
WOTES-D with a life beat.
We send out the multicast and
dynamically build our host list.
And then based on that host list,
every 10 seconds,
we'll query the hosts on that host
list for the configuration information.
All right.
So let's see.
Sort of review.
We know what our
deployment architecture is,
our three layers: presentation,
application, and database.
We've talked about the database
adapter and the WebObjects adapter.
Well,
let's say that you get your site set up,
and you go to hit your
website for the first time.
You've configured, let's say,
your adapter to use the multicast,
you've got instances running,
and you go to hit your website
and things just don't work.
Let's say that the
application isn't found.
What kind of troubleshooting can you do?
Well,
there's a couple of things we can do.
First of all, we can actually query the
WebObjects adapter to see what
configuration information it has.
And it'll present it to us
in a very readable fashion
right in our web browser.
So here you can see our
HTTP server is called Oberon,
the path to the WebObjects adapter,
cgibin/webobjects.
We're actually sending the
xyzzy command to the adapter.
How many of you are adventure fans?
Anybody recognize that xyzzy?
All right, good for you guys.
Sort of dates some of the
WebObjects programmers,
doesn't it?
All right, so you can query it,
and it'll return detailed
configuration information.
And of course,
this can be password protected.
Your web server is public.
You wouldn't want people sort of seeing
what your configuration setup is.
So we make sure and
password protect that.
Secondarily,
you can also turn on adapter logging
if you want to see the logging.
This was there in pre WebObjects 4.5.
Simply create a file named log
WebObjects in the temp directory,
restart your adapter, your HTTP server,
and then your adapter will start
logging out to a WebObjects.log
file in the same directory.
Make sure and turn that off
when you're in deployment.
Forgot to do that for QPromo.
Learn the hard way on that.
I'm so glad I didn't
start with the store.
All right, you can drastically
reduce your performance.
Alright,
so let's talk about this monitor.
Let's sort of complete the picture.
We know what WOTASC-D does.
It's really the workhorse now
as far as keeping your site up,
communicating with your
WebObjects adapter.
Let's talk about Monitor.
Well, it's a WebObjects application.
It always has been.
Again, it's the interface to WOTASC-D.
Monitor will allow you to manage,
the same instance of Monitor will
allow you to manage multiple hosts,
which means you don't need a version
of Monitor running on every host.
You can manage your whole website.
And it also allows you,
this is where you will configure your
WebObjects adapter and tell it what,
for example, again,
what type of load balancing to use.
And this is also password protected.
Alright,
so I'd like to introduce Melissa Turner.
She's a WebObjects engineer
on the WebObjects team.
We'd like to demo monitor for
you and show the interaction
again between the adapter,
Wotasty, and monitor.
Am I?
Yes, I'm connected.
That was kind of important.
Basically, Dirk has talked about all
the various components,
and I'm sort of going to
show you how they can be used
in a deployment situation.
What I have running right here now is
an instance of the monitor application.
It's actually running on a box
that we have hiding behind stage.
What I'm going to do is, well,
add a host.
I've timed out.
How many of you have seen that before?
How many of you saw Steve's
demo at Macworld where you
saw that a whole bunch?
So I've added the host that's,
as you can see,
it's a Solaris box running backstage.
We thought we'd show you that, yes,
Solaris actually works because
we know that a lot of people
actually deploy on Solaris.
What I'm going to do now
is add an application,
and we're going to hope
I don't have typos in it.
This is basically the defaults that
will be used whenever you create a
new instance of this application.
We have a path wizard on the host that
you want to create the application on.
Navigate down through the
directory structure to
actually find that application.
It saves you having to memorize
where things are on various machines.
And this is a difference that
some of you will notice between
WebObjects 4.0 and WebObjects 4.5.
Now you have to actually navigate down
into the .wa and select the executable
instead of simply selecting the .wa.
One of the advantages to that is
that you can actually set up a script
and navigate down to an executable
script that can set up an environment
and then launch your application.
You like us.
You really like us.
Okay, so I've set up my
defaults for the instance,
so I'm going to go off
and add an instance.
I know I forgot something.
And at this point, I want to show you,
we talked about XYZZY.
I want to show you what the adapter sees.
This is the xyzzyy command that
you can use to get configure it
to sort of view the configuration
information at the adapter.
And if I refresh it,
you'll see that right now the only thing
the adapter knows about is the instance
of monitor that's running backstage.
But if I go over here and
start the application,
Give it a few seconds to
register with Wotaski.
You'll see that the
application is running,
and that when I go back to x, y, z, z,
y and refresh, there's my application.
And just to prove that it
actually is a real application,
You'll notice that I am actually
going through the web server.
I'm not just hitting it
through Direct Connect.
This thing can be annoying.
Yes, I'm an engineer.
Therefore, demos must confuse me.
Correct.
Voila, we have our application.
You'll notice that
we're serving QuickTime.
It's one of the examples that's included
with all of the various WebObjects stuff.
It's just a little store application
that lets you go buy things.
I bought a PowerBook.
Okay, so you've got your application up,
it's being served,
and suddenly people are, you know,
they've heard about your site,
they think it's wonderful,
they want to come visit you.
And you decide that you really
need to add another instance,
or several more instances
of your application.
So you can dynamically
just add another host,
[Transcript missing]
and for some reason it's not wanting
to start well if it did want to
start what I'd then show you is
that I'd go back over to xyzzyy
on the adapter and it would run but
for some reason it's not going to so
try one more time try one more time
The demo gods have spoken.
And, well, because of that,
you won't be able to see the new app.
[Transcript missing]
Alright, so we've talked about your
deployment architecture,
WoTASd, the adapters.
Let's see, what else can we talk about?
You know how to manage your site,
start new instances.
We can schedule downtime and
uptime between your instances
with Monitor and WoTASd.
Something else I'd like to jump to now,
sort of do a shift,
is let's focus on the application itself.
Your application, as you're going through
the development cycle,
is probably going to behave a
little differently than you want
it to during the deployment cycle.
For example, well, here,
let me get here first.
Alright, there's this notion of
public and private resources.
So while you're going through
the development cycle,
you're really usually launching
on the same system that you're
developing on and all your resources
are sort of mingled together.
Well, when you go and deploy,
you've got this HTTP server that needs
to be seen by everybody on the Internet.
And let's say on a static site,
your pages, your HTML pages,
reside on your HTTP server because
they're publicly accessible.
The people need to get to it.
Your images are on your HTTP server,
your sounds, etc.
Anything you might have.
Well, your application,
because we have this dynamic application,
there's some resources there
that we don't want to be
accessible to the public.
For example, your executable,
you don't want someone taking that.
How about your components or your pages,
their definitions?
How about the model file?
Mike showed you that the model file
contains your database information,
including name and password.
So you definitely don't want that going
out and sitting on your HTTP server.
So again, there's this notion of public
resources and private resources,
and you want to keep those separate.
With a WebObjects application,
when you get ready for deployment,
we do something that we term
a "split install." So you
want to make sure and do that.
As a matter of course,
when we did the Q promo,
it was my habit to just
compile the application,
copy the whole .woa folder,
the folder with everything in it,
and just copy it over to the
document root of the HTTP server.
Sold my images and stuff would get there.
Well, they got there,
but with everything else.
So that was a bad practice that
I had to get curbed quite severely.
So you want to make sure and
do that split install and
keep those resources separate.
from your resources on?
KATHLEEN SULLIVAN: We,
if you're-- this is sort of in
the notion of troubleshooting.
If for some reason you do your install,
you have your app running,
you're trying to hit
it through the adapter,
and your images aren't loading,
it probably means that you've
forgotten to copy your public
resources over to your web server.
We got actually caught by
that yesterday when we were
trying to get our demo set up.
Our QuickTime files weren't coming over.
And that's a really good place to look if
you're trying to troubleshoot problems.
This goes to show,
no matter how often you do it,
you always make mistakes.
Thanks, Melissa.
All right.
So application configuration.
So the behavior of your application
during development should not
necessarily be the same in production.
For example,
when you launch an application
in your development environment,
it usually tries to open up the
browser automatically for you.
Well, you wouldn't want that
behavior in deployment,
for example.
So we've provided a way with WebObjects
about three different ways of configuring
the behavior of your application.
So the first is the defaults database.
The defaults database is installed
when you install WebObjects.
It's a database that allows you to store
values for command line arguments on
an application by application basis.
So when you launch, say,
the monitor or you launch your
virtual store light application,
it will look in this defaults
database under its own name,
pull out the command line
arguments that you have set,
and add them to the
launching of the application.
There's also an area in the defaults
database called NSGlobalDomain,
which allows you to have settings
across multiple applications.
So any settings in the
NSGlobalDomain will be applied
to any application launching on
that particular application host.
Secondarily,
the actual command line arguments.
You can go ahead and launch
your application with certain
command line arguments.
These command line arguments will
override any settings that are
duplicated in the defaults database.
So that's the advantage of
using the command line argument
right on the command line,
is that you can override any
settings that you have sitting
in your defaults database.
And finally, as the programmer,
you have ultimate power.
If you want to hard code
something and make sure that it
absolutely behaves a certain way,
you don't want anybody
changing the behavior,
you can of course set it in code,
which would then override anything
that's presented on the command
line or in the defaults database.
Very important for deployment.
All right.
So now let's talk about bottlenecks.
You've gotten your application together.
You've got it ready for deployment.
And let's say that actually you've put
it in what I would call a staging area.
You have your development area,
your staging area,
which is as identical as
possible to your deployment area.
And you want to do some stress
testing on your application.
And you start running through your
application and trying to simulate that
load that you anticipate for deployment.
And you find that it's not performing
the way that you need it to.
These are what we call bottlenecks,
bottlenecks to performance.
And these are the various areas that
you would want to investigate where
that performance bottleneck might be.
So first is the application, of course,
in your code.
Maybe your subroutine that
gets called with every request
response is not performing well
and you need to optimize that.
How about database?
Queries going to the database
aren't optimized well,
especially if you haven't done
table indexing or things like that.
How about your CPU?
Let's say that the traffic that
you put on a single host is just
way too much for that processor.
You need to add a second processor
or offload it to a second box.
How about virtual memory, or RAM?
When you launch your application,
it's going to try and
load itself into RAM.
As you fetch objects from the database,
it's going to try and keep that in RAM.
If you don't have enough of it,
it's going to start swapping to
the database using virtual memory.
That swapping severely
degrades your performance,
so you don't want that to happen.
How about the performance of the network?
Your application is running fine,
your database is fine,
but the communication between
the two is severely strained,
so you need to increase
your network bandwidth.
These are areas that you want to
focus on in looking for the problems.
The application in the database will
be... bottlenecks will be talked about.
I'll talk to you in great detail in the
Optimizing Your Applications session,
session 410.
That's Thursday, I think.
You want to look at that.
The other three areas
I'll address briefly.
Really, the hard part of this situation,
this performance problem,
is in actually identifying with
confidence where the problem is.
The solution is usually more intuitive.
I'd like to just talk about a few
utilities that you could use to
address these separate bottlenecks.
So on the Unix platform, Solaris,
Mac OS X, Linux, for example,
for looking at your CPU and
how it's performing,
using PS or top.
I like top especially because
it's a dynamic update and you can
actually have the columns sorting.
So you can see what percentage
of the processor you're using
at any one point in time.
UpTime tells you in three separate
numbers what the ratio of the processes
that your processor is using over 5,
10, and 15 seconds.
That's also very useful to
get just a quick snapshot of
how your processor is doing.
How about monitoring your VM usage,
the swapping that goes on?
Well, there's VMstat or VM_stat,
depending on which Unix
platform you're on,
to help look in great detail how
the paging is doing and where the
large amounts of paging is going on.
You can also use, again, PS and TOP,
because it also tells you how much real
RAM and how much virtual memory you're
utilizing for a particular process.
Your network: packet sniffers,
there's a lot of them out there.
Solaris comes with,
I think it's called Snoop,
Mac OS X Server comes with TCP dump.
Packet sniffers are very useful
at looking at the packets
going across your network,
measuring how large they are,
and looking at the bandwidth that your
network has to see if you can either
eliminate the traffic on your network or
increase the bandwidth of your network.
There's also netstat.
On NT and Windows 2000,
they have more GUI-oriented tools,
which are very good,
Task Manager and Performance Monitor,
to look at both your
CPU and your RAM usage.
The network.
Network Monitor comes with NTServer.
It's a very useful tool.
They have some great filters
that help you sniff the lines and
isolate different types of packets
and different destination packets.
So it's very useful.
Alright,
we've talked about a lot of things,
sort of been over the map here and there.
What I'd like to do is sort of try
to bring everything we've talked
about together in a scenario.
I'll sort of talk through how
I might consider a sample deployment
and what the thought process
is that I might go through.
So here's my setup to start with.
I have a few customers.
My site is deployed,
but maybe it's not very
popular at the moment,
so that's what the red circles are,
my browsers to my site.
Here I have an HTTP server called Oberon,
and of course it's utilizing
the API adapter for
performance and efficiency.
I have one host, called Europa,
running two instances of my application.
Now, no matter what,
no matter even if one instance
could really handle the traffic
that I anticipate on my website,
I still want to run two instances
for purposes of redundancy.
If I'm running one
instance and it goes down,
my site goes down.
If I'm running two,
my site may slow down,
but it doesn't go down if one goes down.
So that's why I would have
at least two on my site.
And then, of course,
Phobos is my database.
You're always having that database.
Alright, so let's say then, well,
I'm very concerned about my users
being able to access directly Europa,
or access directly my database.
You notice there was
nothing there previously,
probably did that a little too soon,
whoops,
you don't want to hit that button.
I'm a bit concerned about the access
that my users have directly to Europa.
Actually,
they could even talk to WoTAS-D directly,
couldn't they, in this case,
and get the XML configuration
information.
That's not a good thing.
So what I might want to do is put
a firewall between my users and my
actual deployment architecture here,
my deployment site.
Now, with my firewall,
I would only want to allow in
connections to Oberon on port 80,
port 80 being the default
port for HTTP servers.
And that way, even if the users try
to connect to Europa,
the packets won't go
through the firewall.
So that's a very secure setup.
So the first thing I would be concerned
about is implementing a firewall
between your users and your website.
Secure that web.
Now let's say that our site becomes
more popular and we get more users.
Well,
let's say I use an old AIX box in the
back of the room and the more users put
my HTTP server under load and I'm going
to have to add a second HTTP server.
Well, the advantage of the
WebObjects architecture,
the way that it's modularized
to these three tiers,
is that you can scale
the tiers individually.
Very flexible.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to add a second HTTP server.
I'm going to call it Oberon2.
And notice that it's also
using the API adapter.
Of course,
I'm going to have to rename the
first one to Oberon1 because,
well, it just sort of syncs up better.
Now, wait a minute.
Well, there's a problem here.
The firewall is only allowing
packets into Oberon on port 80.
I suppose what I could do is change
it to allow in packets on Oberon
1 and Oberon 2 through port 80,
but then the user would have
to choose which one to hit,
and then it really wouldn't be
scaling my site very well in a very
intuitive fashion for the customer.
So I'm going to introduce
something called Round Robin DNS.
And Round Robin DNS server is
going to sit there and listen for
packets for Oberon on port 80,
and then it's going to take care of
managing it across your HTTP servers.
Okay, great.
Let's see what's next.
All right, we get more servers.
We're more popular.
Things are going great.
And now Europa is having a
hard time handling the traffic.
Well, let's see.
So that means we can't
handle the traffic.
So we can scale our application tier,
and we're going to add Callisto
and two more instances,
of course,
on Callisto for the same reason
that I spoke of previously,
always having at least
two instances per host.
But, you know,
I would say something here,
and that is if you can afford it,
not only would I have two
instances on every host at least,
I would always have at least two
hosts serving in my application layer.
Because just like if
an instance goes down,
my host site doesn't go down
with the second instance,
what if the whole box goes down?
You always want that redundancy,
that second server there,
handling the site, even though it's going
to be at a slower pace,
until you can get that
second box back up.
So really, if you can afford it,
I would always have two of those there.
Alright, let's see,
we have redundancy on the HTTP server,
redundancy on the application tier,
let's see what else.
Database.
Let's consider the database.
Well, if we really want our
site to be very robust,
we're going to need to come up with a
solution for if the database goes down.
What we can do, oh, firewall, sorry.
Alright, actually that's the wrong order.
Let's see if we, alright,
pretend the firewall didn't come up.
Alright, so we have,
what we want to do is have
a second database come in.
And we'll call it DIMOS in this case,
so Phobos and DIMOS.
DIMOS is going to be a mirror of Phobos.
Every insert, update,
and delete that occurs in Phobos
is going to occur in DIMOS so that
they're identical at all times.
And that way, if Phobos goes down,
you can now write your applications
with WebObjects for five to seamlessly
connect to DIMOS and continue processing
while your sysadmin is paged to
look into why Phobos went down,
get Phobos back up,
get them back in sync,
and then you're back in business again.
So it's a very flexible,
scalable architecture
across the three tiers.
Now this firewall that sort
of popped up in the middle,
not every site has it,
but I like to separate with a
firewall my public resources
from my private resources.
Again, it just makes things extra secure.
You recall we don't want people
walking away with our database servers,
and we don't want people being
able to hack into them as well.
So what I might do is add a
second firewall between my--
excuse me-- HTTP servers,
my application servers,
and only let packets through
to my application servers.
That way, if some way someone's able to
tunnel in through port 80 and
get access or control of Oberon,
Oberon cannot connect under
any circumstance to Phobos
with that firewall there.
So again, an additional barrier.
All right, so that type of setup is
generally called a border zone,
where you separate your public
resources from your private
resources physically with a firewall.
And of course, separating it into your
private network and of course,
your public access internet or intranet.
All right, so that's a sample deployment.
That's pretty much it.
But you know,
I realize there's still really one
question that I haven't answered.
And that is the now what.
How many instances do I run?
How do I know how much RAM?
What should my architecture be?
I think it's a big question.
And about a year ago,
I started-- I started asking
myself how I could figure it out.
Is there some magic formula that we
could come up with that would tell
us how many instances to start with?
And by golly,
there's absolutely no way to do it.
But I think-- it's true.
I think we came close, though.
Let's give it a try.
It's all theoretical.
But we created the deployment calculator.
This is the first public rollout
of the deployment calculator.
We're going to ask
Melissa to show it to us.
All right.
Melissa.
This isn't actually a Mac box.
We're proving that we
work on all systems.
Actually, I'm going to talk a little bit
more about troubleshooting stuff.
You can, when you start an application,
if you start it from a shell
and start it with the command
or the command line parameter,
woe debugging enables,
it'll print out all kinds
of stuff to that shell.
So if you're trying to debug
problems in your application
or in your configuration,
this can be helpful.
But we've got a deployment calculator,
and what we're going to try and
calculate is how many instances of
our application we need running.
And there's a few,
this is courtesy of Dirk,
and there's a few things
we've determined are kind of,
sort of, they're the, you know,
Stats?
Measurements?
They're the measurements
that are important.
These are the things that really
sort of influence how many instances
of your application you run.
Things like loop time,
which is how much time does it take
your application to run through the
critical path of the incoming request.
Max wait time is sort of how long do
we want our users to have to wait?
How long do we think our users will be
willing to wait to receive a page back?
How many transactions is my site
likely to be receiving per day?
and sort of on the more WebObjects side,
how long does it take for
my sessions to time out?
How big is my application when it
has one session that's sort of gone
through what we have deemed the sort
of standard path through our site?
How big is it when 10
sessions have gone through?
How long are users likely
to spend on any given page?
And how many pages are they
likely to hit during a visit?
And why don't we say that we
think it's going to take about
a second for our application to
run through the critical loop.
And we think, yeah,
we'll make our users wait four seconds.
And I don't know.
Half a million transactions a day
sounds reasonable for a brand new site,
doesn't it?
Think positive.
And we'll set, you know,
30 minute timeout.
We think people will
be around for a while.
The initialized with one
session is at 22 megabytes,
with 10 sessions at 30 megabytes.
And we think people will take about
20 seconds to look at each page,
read over the stuff, and decide what they
want to do from here.
They'll probably hit, I don't know,
15 pages per visit.
We scroll down to the bottom,
hit the calculate button, and it says,
"Ooh, there's your results." It says you
probably want six instances running.
There's more stuff down here.
This is sort of... This is the...
How many transactions will...
How many requests will be queued?
Okay.
In a typical cycle to not
exceed the maximum wait time.
This is, you know, your transactions per
day divided up into,
well, hours, minutes, seconds.
Your ideal instance count is six,
as we said.
This is some RAM calculations.
Each session is going
to take about 80 meg.
Your application... 0.8.
That's a large session.
You're doing something wrong there.
You've got your entire
database in there now.
The application itself
takes about 21.2 meg.
The average session length
looks like it's going to be
a little over 300 seconds.
You'll deal with, you know,
Sessions per hour.
Yeah, I'm just trying to
translate it into English.
A little over 1,300 sessions
per hour and you'll have,
on average,
819 sessions active at any given time,
which means you'll have about 778 megs
worth of application at any given time.
Over in this list, we sort
show you what the maximum that this
configuration can handle is likely to be,
the maximum number of
transactions per day,
transactions per hour, you know,
what the maximum session length is.
And when we calculate these numbers,
it's done on a bell curve where we,
or it's done by averaging
out transactions over a day.
We all know that there's likely to,
the transactions are actually likely
to be distributed on a bell curve,
you know, California wakes up and the
internet slows down type of thing.
So what you wanna do is you
wanna make sure that your site,
that these numbers here are over
the top of your bell curve so that
whatever configuration you've got,
the maximum number of things
you can handle according to this
transaction is at least what's
listed in this last column here.
What about the memory?
And the memory,
so that's your yellow column
is your max transactions.
And so your memory,
that's the maximum amount of memory
that you'd be using if you had the
maximum number of transactions.
So I would always run
enough instances so that my,
it's called my spike,
transactions per day,
are higher than your top,
the top of your highest bell curve,
and I would always run my
memory so I have enough memory
across my whole website,
and this is all logical,
and logical distribution, so that I'm,
so I would set up with a minimum
on this case of three gigabytes of
RAM on my website with six instances
as long as my bell curve stayed
below two million hits per day.
So what do you think?
Yeah.
That look good?
Why don't you, why don't you click on the
transaction per day hyperlink?
So there's a glossary of all these terms,
how I've calculated it,
how we've calculated it,
and it walks you through how to use
it and what each of the terms mean.
I provide the formula at the bottom.
The source code is there so you
can modify your own formula.
It's all theoretical.
Please use it and give me
feedback so we can modify it.
And it's on your CD in your bag,
your WebObjects demo CD.
So it's right there,
the project and everything.
So have at it.
Let me know.
Thank you.
All right.
Thank you, Melissa.
Oh, let's see.
Well, that was exciting.
Public--it took a--really,
it's been like about a
year working on that.
So again,
it's in your CD--it's in your bag,
and you can also download it
from enterprise.apple.com at
WWDC2000 if you don't get it there.
All right, so roadmap.
So where do we go from here?
We covered a lot of material.
There's a lot more for deployment.
WebObjects optimization,
Thursday at 9:00 AM.
Maximizing performance and
also performance metrics,
I think, is very applicable to deployment
because you've got to tell where
your performance bottlenecks are.
So you might want to
make sure and go there.
For more information,
you've seen these URLs before,
this information before
in the previous slides.
Don't forget about the
BOF tomorrow night.
Who to contact?
Please send all deployment calculator
information to Wode feedback,
but there's also,
in the introduction portion
of the deployment calculator,
there's information where to
forward feedback on that as well,
but you can forward it there.
and finally Q&A.
But wait,
I get to ask the first question.
You can put the lights up.
What was the relationship between all
names of the hosts in this presentation?
Deimos, Phobos, yes?
Greek mythology.
Greek mythology, very good.
I'll accept that.
But there are moons of the solar system.